GenerativeArt is a Python-based project designed to explore the creation of algorithmic art through computational techniques and geometric patterns. This repository combines Python's flexibility in generating visuals with advanced features like Adobe Photoshop's generative tools to produce thematically rich and visually compelling artworks.

Overview

This project focuses on integrating randomness, structured design principles, and computational creativity to produce artworks that reflect themes such as dystopia, post-apocalyptic aesthetics, and artistic abstraction. The project leverages Python libraries like Matplotlib and NumPy to generate the base designs, which can be further enhanced using external tools for thematic depth.

Features

Fractal Spiral Patterns: Recursive geometric designs inspired by natural and mathematical fractals.
Random Rectangle Compositions: Minimalist arrangements of intersecting rectangles.
Geometric Intersection Patterns: Abstract, clean designs combining geometric lines and filled spaces.
Random Lines Art: Blending structured randomness with dense and sparse regions.
3D Surface Plots: Mathematical surface visualizations with dynamic color mapping.

Requirements

To run the scripts, you need Python 3.7+ and the following libraries:

matplotlib
numpy

You can install the dependencies using
pip install -r requirements.txt

Outputs
Generated artworks are stored in the outputs/ directory, including:

Fractal Spiral Designs: Complex, recursive patterns.
Random Lines Art: Line-based designs emphasizing randomness and density.
3D Surface Plots: Visual representations of mathematical surfaces.
Geometric Intersection Compositions: Balanced, abstract forms.

Example Outputs

fractal_design_300dpi.png: A fractal-based visual.
random_lines_300dpi.png: Line art with dense and sparse regions.
visual3.png: Geometric intersection composition.
visual4.png: A 3D surface plot.

GenerativeArt/
├── README.md
├── LICENSE
├── requirements.txt
├── src/
│   ├── fractal_spiral.py            # Generates recursive fractal spirals
│   ├── random_rectangles.py         # Creates intersecting rectangles
│   ├── geometric_intersections.py   # Produces clean geometric designs
│   ├── random_lines_art.py          # Generates structured line art
│   ├── 3d_surface_plot.py           # Creates 3D surface plots
├── outputs/
│   ├── fractal_design_300dpi.png
│   ├── random_lines_300dpi.png
│   ├── visual3.png
│   ├── visual4.png
└── .gitignore
